Azure storage 
-------------
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/reference-docs-index

About Azure Storage Service and Storage Account:
Cloud computing enables new scenarios for applications requiring scalable, durable, and highly available storage for their data – which is exactly 
why Microsoft developed Azure Storage Service. 


• Azure Storage is a PaaS service that you can use to store both unstructured and partially structured data. 
• Azure Storage is massively scalable and elastic: It can store and process hundreds of terabytes of data to support the big data scenarios required 
  by scientific, financial analysis, and media applications. Or you can store the small amounts of data required for a small business website. 


• By default, you can create up to 100 storage accounts in a single Azure subscription. Each standard storage account can contain up to 500 TB of 
  combined blob, queue, table, and file data. 
• As the demands on your storage application grow, Azure Storage automatically allocates the appropriate resources to meet them. We are charged 
  only for what we use. 
 
Azure Storage Account:

An Azure storage account is a secure account that gives you access to services in Azure Storage. Your storage account provides a unique namespace 
for your storage resources. There are two types of storage accounts: 
  1. A standard storage account includes Blob, Table, Queue, and File storage. 
  2. A premium storage account currently supports Azure Virtual Machine disks only. 
 
It offers four types of storage services, depending on the type of data that they are designed to store: 


1. Blob Storage stores file data. A blob can be any type of text or binary data, such as a document, media file, or application installer. 
   Blob Storage is sometimes referred to as Object storage. 


2. Table Storage stores partially structured datasets. Table storage is a NoSQL key-attribute data store, which allows for rapid development and 
   fast access to large quantities of data. 


3. Queue Storage provides reliable messaging for workflow processing and for communication between components of cloud services. 


4. File Storage Similar to blobs, these provide storage for unstructured files, but they offer support for file sharing in the same manner as 
   traditional on-premises Windows file shares.  

How To Create a Storage Account:
1. Azure Portal - Browse Storage Accounts - New - Data + Storage - Storage account 
2. Enter Name (must be all lowercase)  
3. Deployment Model = Resource Manager 
4. and select Subscription, Resource Group, Location 
5. Account Kind: Storage (general purpose v1) / StorageV2 (general purpose v2) / Blob Storage  
Note: A Blob storage account is a specialized storage account for storing your unstructured data as blobs (objects) in Azure Storage. 
      For applications requiring only block or append blob storage, we recommend using Blob storage accounts. 
6.Performance: Standard / Premium  
Standard use HDD Drives and Premium use SSD Drives 
Premium is used only for disks of VMs 

PowerShell Command to Create Storage Account 
Login-AzureRmAccount 
Create a storage account. 
•New-AzureRmStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName "DemoRG" -Name "dssdemostorage"  -SkuName Standard_LRS -Location 'South India'  
  Modify storage account properties, such as type. 
•Set-AzureRmStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName "DemoRG" -AccountName "dssdemostorage" -Type "Standard_RAGRS" 